Update K8up Documentation (#205)
vshn/k8up: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-tos/prebackuppod.adoc

= How to use Pre-Backup pods

Although K8up supports xref:how-tos/application-aware-backups.adoc[executing backup commands] in already running pods, there might be a need to start a specific Pod for the backup.

> Or what if the backup command you'd like to run doesn't belong to a running pod?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like, what if the backup command you'd like to run isn't available in the running pod?
```

> Or you want to backup something that's running on a RWO PVC?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or maybe you want to backup something that's running on a RWO PVC?
```

> Or even outside the Kubernetes cluster?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or perhaps you want to backup something that's outside the Kubernetes cluster, like a managed cloud database?
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: backup.appuio.ch/v1alpha1
kind: PreBackupPod
metadata:
  name: mysqldump
spec:
  backupCommand: mysqldump -u$USER -p$PW -h $DB_HOST --all-databases
  pod:
    spec:
      containers:
        - env:
            - name: USER
              value: dumper
            - name: PW
              value: topsecret
            - name: DB_HOST
              value: mariadb.example.com
          image: mariadb
          command:
            - 'sleep'
            - 'infinity'
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          name: mysqldump

----

[TIP]
.Passing environment variables
====

> If you want to pass environment variables to the `backupCommand` you'll have to wrap them in a shell. In above prebackup pod example that would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to pass environment variables to the `backupCommand`, then you'll have to wrap them in a shell. In the prebackup pod example above, that would look like this:
```

[source]
--
spec:
  backupCommand: /bin/bash -c 'mysqldump -uroot -p "${MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD}" --all-databases'" --overwrite
--

You can also add it to any pods that are running in the namespace:

[source]
--
via kubectl:
kubectl -n ${YOUR_NAMESPACE} annotate pods ${YOUR_POD_NAME} "k8up.syn.tools/backupcommand=/bin/bash -c 'mysqldump -uroot -p\"\${MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD}\" --all-databases'" --overwrite

> in the manifest:

Reviewer: I suggest to split these two examples (_via kubectl_ and _in the manifest_) into separate code blocks, because it was not immediately clear to me that they show two ways to achieve the same thing.

spec:
  serviceName: "mariadb"
  replicas: 1
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: mariadb
      annotations:
        k8up.syn.tools/backupcommand: /bin/bash -c 'mysqldump -uroot -p "${MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD}" --all-databases'
--
====

> That's the perfect use case for using PreBackup pods!

Reviewer: This sentence starts out of nowhere, just after a really long `TIP` section. I.e. what's "That" and who's "They" (next sentence)?

They're Pod definitions that live in your namespaces.

> Once the Operator triggers a backup on that specific namespace it will loop through all these Pod definitions, run them and clean them up again after the backup has finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Operator triggers a backup for that specific namespace, then it will loop through all these Pod definitions, execute them and clean them up after the backup finished.
```

> This allows much more flexibility, as they support everything a normal Pod template does.

Reviewer: They?

> So for instance you are able to set Pod affinity so the PreBackup Pods get started on a specific node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, you are able to set Pod affinity, so that the PreBackup Pods are started on a specific node.
```
